spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/audio/speech/elevenlabs-speech.adoc, before:

= ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech (TTS)

== Introduction

ElevenLabs provides natural-sounding speech synthesis software using deep learning. Its AI audio models generate realistic, versatile, and contextually-aware speech, voices, and sound effects across 32 languages. The ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech API enables users to bring any book, article, PDF, newsletter, or text to life with ultra-realistic AI narration.

== Prerequisites

. Create an ElevenLabs account and obtain an API key.  You can sign up at the https://elevenlabs.io/sign-up[ElevenLabs signup page]. Your API key can be found on your profile page after logging in.
. Add the `spring-ai-elevenlabs` dependency to your project's build file.  For more information, refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section.

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech Client.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-elevenlabs</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-elevenlabs'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

== Speech Properties

=== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.elevenlabs` is used as the property prefix for *all* ElevenLabs related configurations (both connection and TTS specific settings).  This is defined in `ElevenLabsConnectionProperties`.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.base-url | The base URL for the ElevenLabs API. | https://api.elevenlabs.io
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.api-key  | Your ElevenLabs API key.           | -
|====

=== Configuration Properties

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the audio speech auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.audio.speech`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.audio.speech=elevenlabs (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.audio.speech=none (or any value which doesn't match elevenlabs)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts` is used as the property prefix to configure the ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech client, specifically. This is defined in `ElevenLabsSpeechProperties`.

[cols="3,5,2"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.model.audio.speech   | Enable Audio Speech Model |  elevenlabs
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options.model-id | The ID of the model to use. | eleven_turbo_v2_5
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options.voice-id | The ID of the voice to use.  This is the *voice ID*, not the voice name. | 9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options.output-format |  The output format for the generated audio. See xref:#output-formats[Output Formats] below. | mp3_22050_32
|====

NOTE: The base URL and API key can also be configured *specifically* for TTS using `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.base-url` and `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.api-key`. However, it is generally recommended to use the global `spring.ai.elevenlabs` prefix for simplicity, unless you have a specific reason to use different credentials for different ElevenLabs services. The more specific `tts` properties will override the global ones.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options` can be overridden at runtime.

[[output-formats]]
.Available Output Formats
[cols="1,1"]
|====
| Enum Value         | Description
| MP3_22050_32       | MP3, 22.05 kHz, 32 kbps
| MP3_44100_32       | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 32 kbps
| MP3_44100_64       | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 64 kbps
| MP3_44100_96       | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 96 kbps
| MP3_44100_128      | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 128 kbps
| MP3_44100_192      | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 192 kbps
| PCM_8000           | PCM, 8 kHz
| PCM_16000          | PCM, 16 kHz
| PCM_22050          | PCM, 22.05 kHz
| PCM_24000          | PCM, 24 kHz
| PCM_44100          | PCM, 44.1 kHz
| PCM_48000          | PCM, 48 kHz
| ULAW_8000          | µ-law, 8 kHz
| ALAW_8000          | A-law, 8 kHz
| OPUS_48000_32      | Opus, 48 kHz, 32 kbps
| OPUS_48000_64      | Opus, 48 kHz, 64 kbps
| OPUS_48000_96      | Opus, 48 kHz, 96 kbps
| OPUS_48000_128     | Opus, 48 kHz, 128 kbps
| OPUS_48000_192     | Opus, 48 kHz, 192 kbps
|====


== Runtime Options [[speech-options]]

The `ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions` class provides options to use when making a text-to-speech request.  On start-up, the options specified by `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts` are used, but you can override these at runtime.  The following options are available:

* `modelId`: The ID of the model to use.
* `voiceId`: The ID of the voice to use.
* `outputFormat`: The output format of the generated audio.
* `voiceSettings`:  An object containing voice settings such as `stability`, `similarityBoost`, `style`, `useSpeakerBoost`, and `speed`.
* `enableLogging`: A boolean to enable or disable logging.
* `languageCode`: The language code of the input text (e.g., "en" for English).
* `pronunciationDictionaryLocators`:  A list of pronunciation dictionary locators.
* `seed`: A seed for random number generation, for reproducibility.
* `previousText`: Text before the main text, for context in multi-turn conversations.
* `nextText`: Text after the main text, for context in multi-turn conversations.
* `previousRequestIds`: Request IDs from previous turns in a conversation.
* `nextRequestIds`: Request IDs for subsequent turns in a conversation.
* `applyTextNormalization`:  Apply text normalization ("auto", "on", or "off").
* `applyLanguageTextNormalization`:  Apply language text normalization.

For example:

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions speechOptions = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
    .model("eleven_multilingual_v2")
    .voiceId("your_voice_id")
    .outputFormat(ElevenLabsApi.OutputFormat.MP3_44100_128.getValue())
    .build();

TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("Hello, this is a text-to-speech example.", speechOptions);
TextToSpeechResponse response = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.call(speechPrompt);
----

=== Using Voice Settings

You can customize the voice output by providing `VoiceSettings` in the options. This allows you to control properties like stability and similarity.

[source,java]
----
var voiceSettings = new ElevenLabsApi.SpeechRequest.VoiceSettings(0.75f, 0.75f, 0.0f, true);

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions speechOptions = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
    .model("eleven_multilingual_v2")
    .voiceId("your_voice_id")
    .voiceSettings(voiceSettings)
    .build();

TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("This is a test with custom voice settings!", speechOptions);
TextToSpeechResponse response = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.call(speechPrompt);
----

== Manual Configuration

Add the `spring-ai-elevenlabs` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-elevenlabs</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-elevenlabs'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an `ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel`:

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsApi elevenLabsApi = ElevenLabsApi.builder()
		.apiKey(System.getenv("ELEVEN_LABS_API_KEY"))
		.build();

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.builder()
	.elevenLabsApi(elevenLabsApi)
	.defaultOptions(ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
		.model("eleven_turbo_v2_5")
		.voiceId("your_voice_id") // e.g. "9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x"
		.outputFormat("mp3_44100_128")
		.build())
	.build();

// The call will use the default options configured above.
TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("Hello, this is a text-to-speech example.");
TextToSpeechResponse response = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.call(speechPrompt);

byte[] responseAsBytes = response.getResult().getOutput();
----

== Streaming Real-time Audio

The ElevenLabs Speech API supports real-time audio streaming using chunk transfer encoding.  This allows audio playback to begin before the entire audio file is generated.

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsApi elevenLabsApi = ElevenLabsApi.builder()
		.apiKey(System.getenv("ELEVEN_LABS_API_KEY"))
		.build();

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.builder()
	.elevenLabsApi(elevenLabsApi)
	.build();

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions streamingOptions = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
    .model("eleven_turbo_v2_5")
    .voiceId("your_voice_id")
    .outputFormat("mp3_44100_128")
    .build();

TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("Today is a wonderful day to build something people love!", streamingOptions);

Flux<TextToSpeechResponse> responseStream = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.stream(speechPrompt);

// Process the stream, e.g., play the audio chunks
responseStream.subscribe(speechResponse -> {
    byte[] audioChunk = speechResponse.getResult().getOutput();
    // Play the audioChunk
});

----

== Voices API

The ElevenLabs Voices API allows you to retrieve information about available voices, their settings, and default voice settings. You can use this API to discover the `voiceId`s to use in your speech requests.

To use the Voices API, you'll need to create an instance of `ElevenLabsVoicesApi`:

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsVoicesApi voicesApi = ElevenLabsVoicesApi.builder()
        .apiKey(System.getenv("ELEVEN_LABS_API_KEY"))
        .build();
----

You can then use the following methods:

*   `getVoices()`: Retrieves a list of all available voices.
*   `getDefaultVoiceSettings()`: Gets the default settings for voices.
*   `getVoiceSettings(String voiceId)`: Returns the settings for a specific voice.
*   `getVoice(String voiceId)`: Returns metadata about a specific voice.

Example:

[source,java]
----
// Get all voices
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voices> voicesResponse = voicesApi.getVoices();
List<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voice> voices = voicesResponse.getBody().voices();

// Get default voice settings
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings> defaultSettingsResponse = voicesApi.getDefaultVoiceSettings();
ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings defaultSettings = defaultSettingsResponse.getBody();

// Get settings for a specific voice
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings> voiceSettingsResponse = voicesApi.getVoiceSettings(voiceId);
ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings voiceSettings = voiceSettingsResponse.getBody();

// Get details for a specific voice
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voice> voiceDetailsResponse = voicesApi.getVoice(voiceId);
ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voice voiceDetails = voiceDetailsResponse.getBody();
----

== Example Code

* The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-elevenlabs/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/elevenlabs/ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModelIT.java[ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModelIT.java] test provides some general examples of how to use the library.
* The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-elevenlabs/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/elevenlabs/api/ElevenLabsApiIT.java[ElevenLabsApiIT.java] test provides examples of using the low-level `ElevenLabsApi`.

Commit message:

docs: Add HTTP client configuration properties for model providers
Document HTTP client configuration options for 12 model providers,
enabling users to customize timeouts, connection pools, and SSL settings.

Changes:
- Add HTTP client properties documentation for RestClient-based providers
  (DeepSeek, Anthropic, OpenAI, Ollama, MiniMax, Mistral AI, ZhiPu AI,
  Stability AI, ElevenLabs)
- Add timeout and connection pool properties for Azure OpenAI
- Add timeout and connection properties for Google GenAI
- Add timeout and async thread properties for OCI GenAI

All properties are optional with no default values, allowing users to
configure HTTP client behavior based on their specific requirements.

Signed-off-by: yinh <fottas@163.com>

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/audio/speech/elevenlabs-speech.adoc, after:

= ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech (TTS)

== Introduction

ElevenLabs provides natural-sounding speech synthesis software using deep learning. Its AI audio models generate realistic, versatile, and contextually-aware speech, voices, and sound effects across 32 languages. The ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech API enables users to bring any book, article, PDF, newsletter, or text to life with ultra-realistic AI narration.

== Prerequisites

. Create an ElevenLabs account and obtain an API key.  You can sign up at the https://elevenlabs.io/sign-up[ElevenLabs signup page]. Your API key can be found on your profile page after logging in.
. Add the `spring-ai-elevenlabs` dependency to your project's build file.  For more information, refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section.

== Auto-configuration

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech Client.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-model-elevenlabs</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-model-elevenlabs'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

== Speech Properties

=== Connection Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.elevenlabs` is used as the property prefix for *all* ElevenLabs related configurations (both connection and TTS specific settings).  This is defined in `ElevenLabsConnectionProperties`.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.base-url | The base URL for the ElevenLabs API. | https://api.elevenlabs.io
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.api-key  | Your ElevenLabs API key.           | -
|====

==== HTTP Client Properties

The prefix `spring.ai.elevenlabs` is used as the property prefix that lets you configure the HTTP client for ElevenLabs API calls.

[cols="3,5,1"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.elevenlabs.connect-timeout | HTTP connection timeout | -
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.read-timeout | HTTP read timeout | -
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.redirects | HTTP redirect strategy (FOLLOW, NORMAL, DONT_FOLLOW) | -
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.http.ssl.bundle | SSL bundle name for secure connections | -
|====

=== Configuration Properties

[NOTE]
====
Enabling and disabling of the audio speech auto-configurations are now configured via top level properties with the prefix `spring.ai.model.audio.speech`.

To enable, spring.ai.model.audio.speech=elevenlabs (It is enabled by default)

To disable, spring.ai.model.audio.speech=none (or any value which doesn't match elevenlabs)

This change is done to allow configuration of multiple models.
====

The prefix `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts` is used as the property prefix to configure the ElevenLabs Text-to-Speech client, specifically. This is defined in `ElevenLabsSpeechProperties`.

[cols="3,5,2"]
|====
| Property | Description | Default

| spring.ai.model.audio.speech   | Enable Audio Speech Model |  elevenlabs
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options.model-id | The ID of the model to use. | eleven_turbo_v2_5
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options.voice-id | The ID of the voice to use.  This is the *voice ID*, not the voice name. | 9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x
| spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options.output-format |  The output format for the generated audio. See xref:#output-formats[Output Formats] below. | mp3_22050_32
|====

NOTE: The base URL and API key can also be configured *specifically* for TTS using `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.base-url` and `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.api-key`. However, it is generally recommended to use the global `spring.ai.elevenlabs` prefix for simplicity, unless you have a specific reason to use different credentials for different ElevenLabs services. The more specific `tts` properties will override the global ones.

TIP: All properties prefixed with `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts.options` can be overridden at runtime.

[[output-formats]]
.Available Output Formats
[cols="1,1"]
|====
| Enum Value         | Description
| MP3_22050_32       | MP3, 22.05 kHz, 32 kbps
| MP3_44100_32       | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 32 kbps
| MP3_44100_64       | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 64 kbps
| MP3_44100_96       | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 96 kbps
| MP3_44100_128      | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 128 kbps
| MP3_44100_192      | MP3, 44.1 kHz, 192 kbps
| PCM_8000           | PCM, 8 kHz
| PCM_16000          | PCM, 16 kHz
| PCM_22050          | PCM, 22.05 kHz
| PCM_24000          | PCM, 24 kHz
| PCM_44100          | PCM, 44.1 kHz
| PCM_48000          | PCM, 48 kHz
| ULAW_8000          | µ-law, 8 kHz
| ALAW_8000          | A-law, 8 kHz
| OPUS_48000_32      | Opus, 48 kHz, 32 kbps
| OPUS_48000_64      | Opus, 48 kHz, 64 kbps
| OPUS_48000_96      | Opus, 48 kHz, 96 kbps
| OPUS_48000_128     | Opus, 48 kHz, 128 kbps
| OPUS_48000_192     | Opus, 48 kHz, 192 kbps
|====


== Runtime Options [[speech-options]]

The `ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions` class provides options to use when making a text-to-speech request.  On start-up, the options specified by `spring.ai.elevenlabs.tts` are used, but you can override these at runtime.  The following options are available:

* `modelId`: The ID of the model to use.
* `voiceId`: The ID of the voice to use.
* `outputFormat`: The output format of the generated audio.
* `voiceSettings`:  An object containing voice settings such as `stability`, `similarityBoost`, `style`, `useSpeakerBoost`, and `speed`.
* `enableLogging`: A boolean to enable or disable logging.
* `languageCode`: The language code of the input text (e.g., "en" for English).
* `pronunciationDictionaryLocators`:  A list of pronunciation dictionary locators.
* `seed`: A seed for random number generation, for reproducibility.
* `previousText`: Text before the main text, for context in multi-turn conversations.
* `nextText`: Text after the main text, for context in multi-turn conversations.
* `previousRequestIds`: Request IDs from previous turns in a conversation.
* `nextRequestIds`: Request IDs for subsequent turns in a conversation.
* `applyTextNormalization`:  Apply text normalization ("auto", "on", or "off").
* `applyLanguageTextNormalization`:  Apply language text normalization.

For example:

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions speechOptions = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
    .model("eleven_multilingual_v2")
    .voiceId("your_voice_id")
    .outputFormat(ElevenLabsApi.OutputFormat.MP3_44100_128.getValue())
    .build();

TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("Hello, this is a text-to-speech example.", speechOptions);
TextToSpeechResponse response = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.call(speechPrompt);
----

=== Using Voice Settings

You can customize the voice output by providing `VoiceSettings` in the options. This allows you to control properties like stability and similarity.

[source,java]
----
var voiceSettings = new ElevenLabsApi.SpeechRequest.VoiceSettings(0.75f, 0.75f, 0.0f, true);

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions speechOptions = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
    .model("eleven_multilingual_v2")
    .voiceId("your_voice_id")
    .voiceSettings(voiceSettings)
    .build();

TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("This is a test with custom voice settings!", speechOptions);
TextToSpeechResponse response = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.call(speechPrompt);
----

== Manual Configuration

Add the `spring-ai-elevenlabs` dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-elevenlabs</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-elevenlabs'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Next, create an `ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel`:

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsApi elevenLabsApi = ElevenLabsApi.builder()
		.apiKey(System.getenv("ELEVEN_LABS_API_KEY"))
		.build();

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.builder()
	.elevenLabsApi(elevenLabsApi)
	.defaultOptions(ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
		.model("eleven_turbo_v2_5")
		.voiceId("your_voice_id") // e.g. "9BWtsMINqrJLrRacOk9x"
		.outputFormat("mp3_44100_128")
		.build())
	.build();

// The call will use the default options configured above.
TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("Hello, this is a text-to-speech example.");
TextToSpeechResponse response = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.call(speechPrompt);

byte[] responseAsBytes = response.getResult().getOutput();
----

== Streaming Real-time Audio

The ElevenLabs Speech API supports real-time audio streaming using chunk transfer encoding.  This allows audio playback to begin before the entire audio file is generated.

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsApi elevenLabsApi = ElevenLabsApi.builder()
		.apiKey(System.getenv("ELEVEN_LABS_API_KEY"))
		.build();

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.builder()
	.elevenLabsApi(elevenLabsApi)
	.build();

ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions streamingOptions = ElevenLabsTextToSpeechOptions.builder()
    .model("eleven_turbo_v2_5")
    .voiceId("your_voice_id")
    .outputFormat("mp3_44100_128")
    .build();

TextToSpeechPrompt speechPrompt = new TextToSpeechPrompt("Today is a wonderful day to build something people love!", streamingOptions);

Flux<TextToSpeechResponse> responseStream = elevenLabsTextToSpeechModel.stream(speechPrompt);

// Process the stream, e.g., play the audio chunks
responseStream.subscribe(speechResponse -> {
    byte[] audioChunk = speechResponse.getResult().getOutput();
    // Play the audioChunk
});

----

== Voices API

The ElevenLabs Voices API allows you to retrieve information about available voices, their settings, and default voice settings. You can use this API to discover the `voiceId`s to use in your speech requests.

To use the Voices API, you'll need to create an instance of `ElevenLabsVoicesApi`:

[source,java]
----
ElevenLabsVoicesApi voicesApi = ElevenLabsVoicesApi.builder()
        .apiKey(System.getenv("ELEVEN_LABS_API_KEY"))
        .build();
----

You can then use the following methods:

*   `getVoices()`: Retrieves a list of all available voices.
*   `getDefaultVoiceSettings()`: Gets the default settings for voices.
*   `getVoiceSettings(String voiceId)`: Returns the settings for a specific voice.
*   `getVoice(String voiceId)`: Returns metadata about a specific voice.

Example:

[source,java]
----
// Get all voices
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voices> voicesResponse = voicesApi.getVoices();
List<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voice> voices = voicesResponse.getBody().voices();

// Get default voice settings
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings> defaultSettingsResponse = voicesApi.getDefaultVoiceSettings();
ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings defaultSettings = defaultSettingsResponse.getBody();

// Get settings for a specific voice
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings> voiceSettingsResponse = voicesApi.getVoiceSettings(voiceId);
ElevenLabsVoicesApi.VoiceSettings voiceSettings = voiceSettingsResponse.getBody();

// Get details for a specific voice
ResponseEntity<ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voice> voiceDetailsResponse = voicesApi.getVoice(voiceId);
ElevenLabsVoicesApi.Voice voiceDetails = voiceDetailsResponse.getBody();
----

== Example Code

* The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-elevenlabs/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/elevenlabs/ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModelIT.java[ElevenLabsTextToSpeechModelIT.java] test provides some general examples of how to use the library.
* The link:https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/blob/main/models/spring-ai-elevenlabs/src/test/java/org/springframework/ai/elevenlabs/api/ElevenLabsApiIT.java[ElevenLabsApiIT.java] test provides examples of using the low-level `ElevenLabsApi`.
