spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/opensearch.adoc, before:

= OpenSearch

This section walks you through setting up `OpenSearchVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

link:https://opensearch.org[OpenSearch] is an open-source search and analytics engine originally forked from Elasticsearch, distributed under the Apache License 2.0. It enhances AI application development by simplifying the integration and management of AI-generated assets. OpenSearch supports vector, lexical, and hybrid search capabilities, leveraging advanced vector database functionalities to facilitate low-latency queries and similarity searches as detailed on the link:https://opensearch.org/platform/search/vector-database.html[vector database page].

The link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/index/[OpenSearch k-NN] functionality allows users to query vector embeddings from large datasets. An embedding is a numerical representation of a data object, such as text, image, audio, or document. Embeddings can be stored in the index and queried using various similarity functions.

== Prerequisites

* A running OpenSearch instance. The following options are available:
** link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/opensearch/install/index/[Self-Managed OpenSearch]
** link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/[Amazon OpenSearch Service]
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `OpenSearchVectorStore`.

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OpenSearch Vector Store.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch'
}
----

TIP: For both self-hosted and Amazon OpenSearch Service, use the same dependency.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Please have a look at the list of xref:#_configuration_properties[configuration parameters] for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.

Now you can auto-wire the `OpenSearchVectorStore` as a vector store in your application:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List<Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to OpenSearch
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

=== Configuration Properties

To connect to OpenSearch and use the `OpenSearchVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  ai:
    vectorstore:
      opensearch:
        uris: <opensearch instance URIs>
        username: <opensearch username>
        password: <opensearch password>
        index-name: spring-ai-document-index
        initialize-schema: true
        similarity-function: cosinesimil
        read-timeout: <time to wait for response>
        connect-timeout: <time to wait until connection established>
        path-prefix: <custom path prefix>
        ssl-bundle: <name of SSL bundle>
        aws:  # Only for Amazon OpenSearch Service
          host: <aws opensearch host>
          service-name: <aws service name>
          access-key: <aws access key>
          secret-key: <aws secret key>
          region: <aws region>
----

Properties starting with `spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.*` are used to configure the `OpenSearchVectorStore`:

[cols="2,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.uris`| URIs of the OpenSearch cluster endpoints | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.username`| Username for accessing the OpenSearch cluster | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.password`| Password for the specified username | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.index-name`| Name of the index to store vectors | `spring-ai-document-index`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.initialize-schema`| Whether to initialize the required schema | `false`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.similarity-function`| The similarity function to use (cosinesimil, l1, l2, linf, innerproduct) | `cosinesimil`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.use-approximate-knn`| Whether to use approximate k-NN for faster searches. If true, uses HNSW-based approximate search. If false, uses exact brute-force k-NN. See link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/approximate-knn/[Approximate k-NN] and link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-score-script/[Exact k-NN] | `false`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.dimensions`| Number of dimensions for vector embeddings. Used when creating index mapping for approximate k-NN. If not set, uses the embedding model's dimensions. | `1536`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.mapping-json`| Custom JSON mapping for the index. Overrides default mapping generation. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.read-timeout`| Time to wait for response from the opposite endpoint. 0 - infinity. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.connect-timeout`| Time to wait until connection established. 0 - infinity. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.path-prefix`| Path prefix for OpenSearch API endpoints. Useful when OpenSearch is behind a reverse proxy with a non-root path. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.ssl-bundle`| Name of the SSL Bundle to use in case of SSL connection | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.host`| Hostname of the OpenSearch instance | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.service-name`| AWS service name | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.access-key`| AWS access key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.secret-key`| AWS secret key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.region`| AWS region | -
|===

[NOTE]
====
You can control whether the AWS-specific OpenSearch auto-configuration is enabled using the `spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.enabled` property.

- If this property is set to `false`, the non-AWS OpenSearch configuration is activated, even if AWS SDK classes are present on the classpath. This allows you to use self-managed or third-party OpenSearch clusters in environments where AWS SDKs are present for other services.
- If AWS SDK classes are not present, the non-AWS configuration is always used.
- If AWS SDK classes are present and the property is not set or set to `true`, the AWS-specific configuration is used by default.

This fallback logic ensures that users have explicit control over the type of OpenSearch integration, preventing accidental activation of AWS-specific logic when not desired.
====

[NOTE]
====
The `path-prefix` property allows you to specify a custom path prefix when OpenSearch is running behind a reverse proxy that uses a non-root path.
For example, if your OpenSearch instance is accessible at `https://example.com/opensearch/` instead of `https://example.com/`, you would set `path-prefix: /opensearch`.
====

The following similarity functions are available:

* `cosinesimil` - Default, suitable for most use cases. Measures cosine similarity between vectors.
* `l1` - Manhattan distance between vectors.
* `l2` - Euclidean distance between vectors.
* `linf` - Chebyshev distance between vectors.

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the OpenSearch vector store. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-opensearch-store` to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-opensearch-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-opensearch-store'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Create an OpenSearch client bean:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public OpenSearchClient openSearchClient() {
    RestClient restClient = RestClient.builder(
        HttpHost.create("http://localhost:9200"))
        .build();
    
    return new OpenSearchClient(new RestClientTransport(
        restClient, new JacksonJsonpMapper()));
}
----

Then create the `OpenSearchVectorStore` bean using the builder pattern:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(OpenSearchClient openSearchClient, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
    return OpenSearchVectorStore.builder(openSearchClient, embeddingModel)
        .index("custom-index")                // Optional: defaults to "spring-ai-document-index"
        .similarityFunction("l2")             // Optional: defaults to "cosinesimil"
        .useApproximateKnn(true)              // Optional: defaults to false (exact k-NN)
        .dimensions(1536)                     // Optional: defaults to 1536 or embedding model's dimensions
        .initializeSchema(true)               // Optional: defaults to false
        .batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy()) // Optional: defaults to TokenCountBatchingStrategy
        .build();
}

// This can be any EmbeddingModel implementation
@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new OpenAiEmbeddingModel(new OpenAiApi(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY")));
}
----

== Metadata Filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable xref:api/vectordbs.adoc#metadata-filters[metadata filters] with OpenSearch as well.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
        .query("The World")
        .topK(TOP_K)
        .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
        .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author", "john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----

NOTE: Those (portable) filter expressions get automatically converted into the proprietary OpenSearch link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/full-text/query-string/[Query string query].

For example, this portable filter expression:

[source,sql]
----
author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'
----

is converted into the proprietary OpenSearch filter format:

[source,text]
----
(metadata.author:john OR jill) AND metadata.article_type:blog
----

== Accessing the Native Client

The OpenSearch Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native OpenSearch client (`OpenSearchClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
OpenSearchVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(OpenSearchVectorStore.class);
Optional<OpenSearchClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    OpenSearchClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for OpenSearch-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to OpenSearch-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.

Commit message:

GH-4765: Add notes on using cosine similarity function with similarity threshold in Opensearch 2.19 and higher.
Attempts to mitigate GH-4765 (https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/issues/4765)

spring-ai-docs/src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/api/vectordbs/opensearch.adoc, after:

= OpenSearch

This section walks you through setting up `OpenSearchVectorStore` to store document embeddings and perform similarity searches.

link:https://opensearch.org[OpenSearch] is an open-source search and analytics engine originally forked from Elasticsearch, distributed under the Apache License 2.0. It enhances AI application development by simplifying the integration and management of AI-generated assets. OpenSearch supports vector, lexical, and hybrid search capabilities, leveraging advanced vector database functionalities to facilitate low-latency queries and similarity searches as detailed on the link:https://opensearch.org/platform/search/vector-database.html[vector database page].

The link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/index/[OpenSearch k-NN] functionality allows users to query vector embeddings from large datasets. An embedding is a numerical representation of a data object, such as text, image, audio, or document. Embeddings can be stored in the index and queried using various similarity functions.

[NOTE]
====
Usage of cosine similarity function with similarity threshold is not currently not supported for Opensearch 2.19 and higher versions. Please see the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/issues/4765[Github issue].
====

== Prerequisites

* A running OpenSearch instance. The following options are available:
** link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/opensearch/install/index/[Self-Managed OpenSearch]
** link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/[Amazon OpenSearch Service]
* If required, an API key for the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] to generate the embeddings stored by the `OpenSearchVectorStore`.

== Auto-configuration

[NOTE]
====
There has been a significant change in the Spring AI auto-configuration, starter modules' artifact names.
Please refer to the https://docs.spring.io/spring-ai/reference/upgrade-notes.html[upgrade notes] for more information.
====

Spring AI provides Spring Boot auto-configuration for the OpenSearch Vector Store.
To enable it, add the following dependency to your project's Maven `pom.xml` file:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-starter-vector-store-opensearch'
}
----

TIP: For both self-hosted and Amazon OpenSearch Service, use the same dependency.
Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Please have a look at the list of xref:#_configuration_properties[configuration parameters] for the vector store to learn about the default values and configuration options.

Additionally, you will need a configured `EmbeddingModel` bean. Refer to the xref:api/embeddings.adoc#available-implementations[EmbeddingModel] section for more information.

Now you can auto-wire the `OpenSearchVectorStore` as a vector store in your application:

[source,java]
----
@Autowired VectorStore vectorStore;

// ...

List<Document> documents = List.of(
    new Document("Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!! Spring AI rocks!!", Map.of("meta1", "meta1")),
    new Document("The World is Big and Salvation Lurks Around the Corner"),
    new Document("You walk forward facing the past and you turn back toward the future.", Map.of("meta2", "meta2")));

// Add the documents to OpenSearch
vectorStore.add(documents);

// Retrieve documents similar to a query
List<Document> results = vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder().query("Spring").topK(5).build());
----

=== Configuration Properties

To connect to OpenSearch and use the `OpenSearchVectorStore`, you need to provide access details for your instance.
A simple configuration can be provided via Spring Boot's `application.yml`:

[source,yaml]
----
spring:
  ai:
    vectorstore:
      opensearch:
        uris: <opensearch instance URIs>
        username: <opensearch username>
        password: <opensearch password>
        index-name: spring-ai-document-index
        initialize-schema: true
        similarity-function: cosinesimil
        read-timeout: <time to wait for response>
        connect-timeout: <time to wait until connection established>
        path-prefix: <custom path prefix>
        ssl-bundle: <name of SSL bundle>
        aws:  # Only for Amazon OpenSearch Service
          host: <aws opensearch host>
          service-name: <aws service name>
          access-key: <aws access key>
          secret-key: <aws secret key>
          region: <aws region>
----

Properties starting with `spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.*` are used to configure the `OpenSearchVectorStore`:

[cols="2,5,1",stripes=even]
|===
|Property | Description | Default Value

|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.uris`| URIs of the OpenSearch cluster endpoints | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.username`| Username for accessing the OpenSearch cluster | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.password`| Password for the specified username | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.index-name`| Name of the index to store vectors | `spring-ai-document-index`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.initialize-schema`| Whether to initialize the required schema | `false`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.similarity-function`| The similarity function to use (cosinesimil, l1, l2, linf, innerproduct) | `cosinesimil`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.use-approximate-knn`| Whether to use approximate k-NN for faster searches. If true, uses HNSW-based approximate search. If false, uses exact brute-force k-NN. See link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/approximate-knn/[Approximate k-NN] and link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/knn/knn-score-script/[Exact k-NN] | `false`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.dimensions`| Number of dimensions for vector embeddings. Used when creating index mapping for approximate k-NN. If not set, uses the embedding model's dimensions. | `1536`
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.mapping-json`| Custom JSON mapping for the index. Overrides default mapping generation. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.read-timeout`| Time to wait for response from the opposite endpoint. 0 - infinity. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.connect-timeout`| Time to wait until connection established. 0 - infinity. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.path-prefix`| Path prefix for OpenSearch API endpoints. Useful when OpenSearch is behind a reverse proxy with a non-root path. | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.ssl-bundle`| Name of the SSL Bundle to use in case of SSL connection | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.host`| Hostname of the OpenSearch instance | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.service-name`| AWS service name | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.access-key`| AWS access key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.secret-key`| AWS secret key | -
|`spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.region`| AWS region | -
|===

[NOTE]
====
You can control whether the AWS-specific OpenSearch auto-configuration is enabled using the `spring.ai.vectorstore.opensearch.aws.enabled` property.

- If this property is set to `false`, the non-AWS OpenSearch configuration is activated, even if AWS SDK classes are present on the classpath. This allows you to use self-managed or third-party OpenSearch clusters in environments where AWS SDKs are present for other services.
- If AWS SDK classes are not present, the non-AWS configuration is always used.
- If AWS SDK classes are present and the property is not set or set to `true`, the AWS-specific configuration is used by default.

This fallback logic ensures that users have explicit control over the type of OpenSearch integration, preventing accidental activation of AWS-specific logic when not desired.
====

[NOTE]
====
The `path-prefix` property allows you to specify a custom path prefix when OpenSearch is running behind a reverse proxy that uses a non-root path.
For example, if your OpenSearch instance is accessible at `https://example.com/opensearch/` instead of `https://example.com/`, you would set `path-prefix: /opensearch`.
====

The following similarity functions are available:

* `cosinesimil` - Default, suitable for most use cases. Measures cosine similarity between vectors.
* `l1` - Manhattan distance between vectors.
* `l2` - Euclidean distance between vectors.
* `linf` - Chebyshev distance between vectors.

== Manual Configuration

Instead of using the Spring Boot auto-configuration, you can manually configure the OpenSearch vector store. For this you need to add the `spring-ai-opensearch-store` to your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.ai</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-ai-opensearch-store</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

or to your Gradle `build.gradle` build file:

[source,groovy]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'org.springframework.ai:spring-ai-opensearch-store'
}
----

TIP: Refer to the xref:getting-started.adoc#dependency-management[Dependency Management] section to add the Spring AI BOM to your build file.

Create an OpenSearch client bean:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public OpenSearchClient openSearchClient() {
    RestClient restClient = RestClient.builder(
        HttpHost.create("http://localhost:9200"))
        .build();
    
    return new OpenSearchClient(new RestClientTransport(
        restClient, new JacksonJsonpMapper()));
}
----

Then create the `OpenSearchVectorStore` bean using the builder pattern:

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public VectorStore vectorStore(OpenSearchClient openSearchClient, EmbeddingModel embeddingModel) {
    return OpenSearchVectorStore.builder(openSearchClient, embeddingModel)
        .index("custom-index")                // Optional: defaults to "spring-ai-document-index"
        .similarityFunction("l2")             // Optional: defaults to "cosinesimil"
        .useApproximateKnn(true)              // Optional: defaults to false (exact k-NN)
        .dimensions(1536)                     // Optional: defaults to 1536 or embedding model's dimensions
        .initializeSchema(true)               // Optional: defaults to false
        .batchingStrategy(new TokenCountBatchingStrategy()) // Optional: defaults to TokenCountBatchingStrategy
        .build();
}

// This can be any EmbeddingModel implementation
@Bean
public EmbeddingModel embeddingModel() {
    return new OpenAiEmbeddingModel(new OpenAiApi(System.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY")));
}
----

== Metadata Filtering

You can leverage the generic, portable xref:api/vectordbs.adoc#metadata-filters[metadata filters] with OpenSearch as well.

For example, you can use either the text expression language:

[source,java]
----
vectorStore.similaritySearch(
    SearchRequest.builder()
        .query("The World")
        .topK(TOP_K)
        .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
        .filterExpression("author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'").build());
----

or programmatically using the `Filter.Expression` DSL:

[source,java]
----
FilterExpressionBuilder b = new FilterExpressionBuilder();

vectorStore.similaritySearch(SearchRequest.builder()
    .query("The World")
    .topK(TOP_K)
    .similarityThreshold(SIMILARITY_THRESHOLD)
    .filterExpression(b.and(
        b.in("author", "john", "jill"),
        b.eq("article_type", "blog")).build()).build());
----
NOTE: Those (portable) filter expressions get automatically converted into the proprietary OpenSearch link:https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/full-text/query-string/[Query string query].

For example, this portable filter expression:

[source,sql]
----
author in ['john', 'jill'] && 'article_type' == 'blog'
----

is converted into the proprietary OpenSearch filter format:

[source,text]
----
(metadata.author:john OR jill) AND metadata.article_type:blog
----

[WARNING]
====
Currently `similarityThreshold()` in combination with cosine similarity function do not work correctly with Opensearch 2.19 and higher. Please use another similarity function like `l1`. For further details please see the https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ai/issues/4765[Github issue].
====

== Accessing the Native Client

The OpenSearch Vector Store implementation provides access to the underlying native OpenSearch client (`OpenSearchClient`) through the `getNativeClient()` method:

[source,java]
----
OpenSearchVectorStore vectorStore = context.getBean(OpenSearchVectorStore.class);
Optional<OpenSearchClient> nativeClient = vectorStore.getNativeClient();

if (nativeClient.isPresent()) {
    OpenSearchClient client = nativeClient.get();
    // Use the native client for OpenSearch-specific operations
}
----

The native client gives you access to OpenSearch-specific features and operations that might not be exposed through the `VectorStore` interface.
